---
layout: post
title: "Xu Liu"
date: 2019-09-27
categories: sysread
---

## Squeezing Software Performance via Eliminating Wasteful Operations

Inefficiencies abound in complex, layered software. A variety of
inefficiencies show up as wasteful memory operations, such as
redundant or useless memory loads and stores. Aliasing, limited
optimization scopes, and insensitivity to input and execution contexts
act as severe deterrents to static program analysis. Microscopic
observation of whole executions at instruction- and operand-level
granularity breaks down abstractions and helps recognize redundancies
that masquerade in complex programs. In this talk, I will describe
various wasteful memory operations, which pervasively exist in modern
software packages and expose great potential for optimization. I will
discuss the design of a fine-grained instrumentation-based profiling
framework that identifies wasteful operations in their contexts, which
guides nontrivial performance improvement. Furthermore, I will show
our recent improvement to the profiling framework by abandoning
instrumentation, which reduces the runtime overhead from 10x to 3% on
average. I will show how our approach works for native binaries and
various managed languages such as Java and Golang, and yields new
performance insights for optimization.

Xu Liu is an assistant professor in the Department of Computer Science
at College of William and Mary. He obtained his Ph.D. from Rice
University in 2014 and joined William and Mary in the same year. Prof.
Liu works on several open-source profiling tools, which are
world-widely used at universities, DOE national laboratories, and
industrial companies. Prof. Liu has published a number of papers in
high-quality venues. His papers received Best Paper Award at SC'15,
PPoPP'18, PPoPP'19, and ASPLOS'17 Highlights, and Distinguished Paper
Award at ICSE'19. His recent ASPLOS'18 paper has been selected as ACM
SIGPLAN Research Highlights in 2019 and nominated for CACM Research
Highlights.  

Host: Professor Iris Bahar

Xu Liu
Assistant Professor
Department of Computer Science 
College of William and Mary
Friday, September 27, 2019 at Noon
Swig Boardroom, Room 241 (CIT - 2nd floor)
