---
layout: post
title: "Noa Zilberman"
date: 2019-11-19
categories: sysread
---

## Do switches dream of machine learning? And other in-network computing stories for grown-ups.

Abstract: The world has become connected, and every year Zetabytes of data are transferred from users to the cloud. This trend, however, cannot sustain. Already the amount of data generated by user applications exceeds the processing capacity of any single computer. An emerging research area, In-network computing, tries to attend to these limitations. In-network computing is the offloading of standard applications to network devices, where processing is done as the data traverses the network. In this talk, I will introduce a set of in-network computing applications and frameworks that we have developed, ranging from caching (e.g., memcached) to consensus (e.g., Paxos). I will focus on the challenges in developing such applications through the examples of DNS and machine learning. Still, in-network computing offers immense performance and power saving benefits, and the talk will conclude with a vision of using those for a scalable and a sustainable computing future.

Bio: Noa Zilberman is a Fellow and an Affiliated Lecturer in the Systems Research Group, University of Cambridge' Department of Computer Science and Technology. In her last roles before joining the Systems Research Group, she was a Senior Principal Chip Architect in Broadcom's Network Switching group, and a researcher in the DIMES project (Tel-Aviv University). Amongst others, she led the hardware development of the first 100Gbps traffic manager, and the architecture of Broadcom's StrataDNX BCM88670. Her research interests range from computer architecture, programmable hardware and networking to data science, with a specific interest in the combination of multiple disciplines (and a touch of measurements).
Current research buzzwords include sustainable computing, data systems, performance, networked-systems architectures, rackscale computing, in-network computing and in-network machine learning, converged interconnects, memories architecture and performance, performance measurements, and others.
Noa received her BSC, MSc (both Magna Cum Laude) and PhD in Electrical Engineering from Tel-Aviv University.
