
---
layout: post
title: "20th Meeting"
date: 2011-12-21
categories: sysread
---

Andreas Voellmy (Yale University) is going to present his current research work.

<strong>Speaker: </strong>Andreas Voellmy
<ul>
	<li><strong>Date:</strong> February 3rd, 2012 (Friday)</li>
	<li><strong>Room: </strong>CIT 368</li>
	<li><strong>Host:</strong> Shriram Krishnamurthi</li>
	<li><strong>Title:</strong> "<em>Nettle: Programmable and Scalable Software Defined Networks</em>"</li>
	<li><strong>Abstract:</strong></li>
</ul>
<blockquote>Network systems are feature-rich and complex, and their operators often
need to modify network software in order to achieve customized
requirements. Software-defined networking (SDN), and OpenFlow in
particular, attempts to make network behaviors more programmable by
moving much of the network control software into user-definable software
running on general-purpose computers.

Two key challenges facing SDN and OpenFlow are programmability and
scalability. In this talk, I will discuss our work on Nettle, an
FRP-based language for programming OpenFlow networks, and NettleCore, a
library in Haskell that allows Haskell programs to control OpenFlow
networks consisting of thousands of switches, scaling to large data
center networks. The library targets shared-memory multicore servers and
enables programmers to build scalable servers using a variety of
concurrency management constructs, ranging from high-level software
transactional memory to low-level atomic compare-and-swap instructions.</blockquote>
&nbsp;

<em>Andreas Voellmy is a Ph.D. candidate in the Yale Haskell Group at</em>
<em>Yale University where he works with Professors Paul Hudak, Richard Yang,</em>
<em>and Bryan Ford.  Prior to joining the Ph.D. program at Yale, Andreas</em>
<em>worked as a software developer and project leader at Apex Digital</em>
<em>Systems and with the Office of Hydrologic Development (OHD) within the</em>
<em>National Atmospheric and Oceanic Administration (NOAA).</em>
