
---
layout: post
title: "4th Meeting"
date: 2011-05-01
categories: sysread
---

Hideaki Kimura will be defending his PhD thesis proposal on May 3rd (Tuesday.) If you are interested, please show up and give him some support. Our next meeting takes place on the following day (May 4th).<strong>
</strong>
<ul>
	<li><strong>Speaker:</strong> Hammurabi Mendes</li>
	<li><strong>Date:</strong> May 4th, 2011 (Wednesday)</li>
	<li><strong>Room:</strong> CIT 506</li>
	<li><strong>Paper:</strong> Ali Ghodsi, Matei Zaharia, Benjamin Hindman, Andy Konwinski, Scott Shenker, and Ion Stoica. "<em>Dominant Resource Fairness: Fair Allocation of Multiple Resource Types</em>" [<a href="http://www.usenix.org/events/nsdi11/tech/full_papers/Ghodsi.pdf ">pdf</a>] [slides]</li>
	<li><strong>Venue:</strong> USENIX NSDI 2011</li>
	<li><strong>Abstract:</strong></li>
</ul>
We consider the problem of fair resource allocation in a system containing different resource types, where each user may have different demands for each resource. To address this problem, we propose Dominant Resource Fairness (DRF), a generalization of max-min fairness to multiple resource types. We show that DRF, unlike other possible policies, satisfies a number of highly desirable properties. First, DRF incentivizes users to share resources, by ensuring that no user is better off if resources are equally partitioned among them. Second, DRF is strategy-proof, as a user cannot increase her allocation by lying about her requirements. Third, DRF is envy-free, as no user would want to trade her allocation with that of another user. Finally, DRF allocations are Pareto efficient, as it is not possible to improve the allocation of a user without decreasing the allocation of another user. We have implemented DRF in the Mesos cluster resource manager, and show that it leads to better throughput and fairness than the slot-based fair sharing schemes in current cluster schedulers.
