
---
layout: post
title: "29th Meeting"
date: 2012-06-13
categories: sysread
---

<ul>
	<li><strong>Speaker:</strong> Eno Thereska (Microsoft Research Cambridge)</li>
	<li><strong>Date:</strong> June 15th, 2012 (Friday)</li>
	<li><strong>Room:</strong> CIT 368</li>
	<li><strong>Title: </strong>"<em>Similarities and differences of a data center and a personal storage system</em>"</li>
	<li><strong>Abstract:</strong></li>
</ul>
<blockquote>This talk will describe two storage systems we've build over the last 4 years. The first is designed for 100K+ machines in data centers. A primary design goal here is power-proportionality and high performance. The system automatically turns on and off thousands of machines at a time to match system load with available resources. The second storage system is designed for end-user devices (e.g., smartphone, tablet, cloud). It caters to spontaneous and ad hoc user accesses and requires minimal management effort from users. A primary design goal is was usability and delighting users.  At first glance, these two storage systems seem very different. However, they share several technical building blocks, including a distributed log abstraction, strong consistency mechanisms for data and metadata and power control mechanisms.</blockquote>
<em>Eno received his PhD (ECE, 2007), Masters (ECE, 2003) and Bachelor (ECE + CS + Math minor, 2002) degrees all from Carnegie Mellon. He's been a Researcher with Microsoft Research since 2007. He has broad interests in systems but also enjoys venturing into other areas occasionally, like machine learning and HCI.</em>
