---
layout: post
title: "47th Meeting"
date: 2013-10-03
categories: sysread
---

<ul>
	<li><strong>Speaker:</strong> Emery Berger (UMass Amherst)</li>
	<li><strong>Date:</strong> October 4th, 2013 (Friday)</li>
	<li><strong>Room:</strong> CIT 368</li>
	<li><strong>Host:</strong> Shriram Krishnamurthi</li>
	<li><strong>Title: </strong>"<em>Programming with People: Integrating Human-Based and Digital Computation</em>"</li>
	<li><strong>Abstract:</strong></li>
</ul>
<blockquote>Humans can perform many tasks with ease that remain difficult or impossible for computers. Crowdsourcing platforms like Amazon's Mechanical Turk make it possible to harness human-based computational power on an unprecedented scale. However, their utility as a general-purpose computational platform remains limited. The lack of complete automation makes it difficult to orchestrate complex or interrelated tasks. Scheduling human workers to reduce latency costs real money, and jobs must be monitored and rescheduled when workers fail to complete their tasks. Furthermore, it is often difficult to predict the length of time and payment that should be budgeted for a given task. Finally, the results of human-based computations are not necessarily reliable, both because human skills and accuracy vary widely, and because workers have a financial incentive to minimize their effort.

This talk presents AutoMan, the first fully automatic crowdprogramming system. AutoMan integrates human-based computations into a standard programming language as ordinary function calls, which can be intermixed freely with traditional functions. This abstraction lets AutoMan programmers focus on their programming logic. An AutoMan program specifies a confidence level for the overall computation and a budget. The AutoMan runtime system then transparently manages all details necessary for scheduling, pricing, and quality control. AutoMan automatically schedules human tasks for each computation until it achieves the desired confidence level; monitors, reprices, and restarts human tasks as necessary; and maximizes parallelism across human workers while staying under budget.

AutoMan is available for download at <a href="http://www.automan-lang.org">www.automan-lang.org</a>.</blockquote>
<em>Emery Berger is an Associate Professor in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Massachusetts Amherst, the flagship campus of the UMass system. He graduated with a Ph.D. in Computer Science from the University of Texas at Austin in 2002. Professor Berger has been a Visiting Scientist at Microsoft Research and at the Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya (UPC) / Barcelona Supercomputing Center (BSC).</em>

<em>Professor Berger's research spans programming languages, runtime systems, and operating systems, with a particular focus on systems that transparently improve reliability, security, and performance. He is the creator of Hoard, a widely-used scalable memory manager on which the Mac OS X memory manager is based, and invented DieHard/DieHarder, which influenced security and reliability features in Windows 7 and 8.</em>

<em>His honors include a Microsoft Research Fellowship, an NSF CAREER Award, a Lilly Teaching Fellowship, a Most Influential Paper Award at OOPSLA 2012, a Google Research Award, and a Microsoft SEIF Award; he was named an ACM Senior Member in 2010.</em>
