---
layout: post
title:  "Another talk"
date:   2019-10-08
categories: sysread
published: true
---

## Learning to Schedule from Experience

### Abstract
Efficiently scheduling data processing jobs on distributed compute
clusters currently requires hand-tuned complex algorithms. In this
work, we show that modern machine learning techniques can generate
highly-efficient scheduling policies automatically. We built Decima,
a new cluster scheduler that uses reinforcement learning (RL) and
neural networks to learn workload-specific scheduling algorithms
without any human instruction beyond a high-level objective.
However, off-the-shelf RL techniques cannot handle the complexity
and scale of the scheduling problem. To build Decima, we had to
develop new representations for jobs’ dependency graphs, design
scalable RL models, and invent new RL training methods to handle
continuous stochastic job arrivals. Our prototype integration with
Spark on a 25-node cluster shows that Decima improves average job
completion time by at least 21% over human-engineered scheduling
heuristics, achieving up to 2× improvement during periods of high
cluster load.

### Bio
Hongzi Mao is a PhD student at the Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science Department of MIT advised by Mohammad Alizadeh. His
research interests focus on applying reinforcement learning to build
and optimize data-driven networked resource management systems. His
work also contributes to the development of new machine learning
algorithms for broader applications beyond computer systems. He is a
recipient of ICML’19 best workshop paper award, Qualcomm Innovation
Fellowship and Andrew (1956) and Erna Viterbi Fellowship.


